Back to the portfolio:
[Portfolio](https://s-bishnoi.github.io/shubham-bishnoi/)

# Database Design

## Overview

The intention for “A College Residence Database” topic was to understand the databases that are used at the front desks, as I did while working part time at the front desk. We regularly work indirectly with the databases, from simply looking up the information for a student to processing them in or out of the residence. I chose this topic, to see if I could simulate the complexity of the databases that universities and colleges use every day.

The number of attributes range from five to eleven in different tables of the database. All the tables except the residence table has at least one foreign key constrain, which makes the database well connected. The 3rd Normal Form contributes to the complexity of the database. This database is comparatively smaller than an actual residence database for any university or college. The university usually saves the data for at least past 10-15 years, this means more storage is required to save all the data. Multiple copies are made for the database and stored at different campuses to make it easier for recovery in any natural damage. These databases are usually distributed and saved location wise to provide fast access.

The selected topic is excellent for basic SQL, as there are different data types like text, integer or real which are really efficient when doing simple queries for sum, counting and aggregating by groups. The most frequently used queries like looking for a student’s information which are very common at universities can be implemented through basic SQL. The complexity and relations between the tables in this database, could be used well for advanced SQL queries. The joins can be created very easily to retrieve information that is needed through views. There are a few examples further in this report that show how it could be put into good use to advanced SQL.

The residence table (with 5 rows) was created first and all the data was created manually and is fictitious. Quad table (with 15 rows) was created after that, keeping residence code as the foreign key. All the data in the quad table was manually created. Student (with 780 rows), Student Employees (with 42 rows) and Employees (with 25 rows) tables were created next. First names, last names, gender and phone numbers were created using generatedata.com. All the other columns for these three tables were manually created to match the properties of the residence. Parking table (with 11 rows) was created last and all the data in that table was created manually